From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one Oh eight. Recorded live
Wednesday, April 9th, 2008. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by teller.
Already controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottlerik.com. Support is also provided
by.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott sits
down with Robbie, Gary and
Andy from planet argon, a
local rail shop in Portland,
Oregon, and talks about Distributed
source control with get hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And I'm sitting
here in Portland, Oregon, my
hometown at planet argon, a
Ruby on rails shop downtown
Portland. I've gotten here with
Robbie, Gary and Andy from
planet argon and they're all
rails developers. And they've recently
started using get Git, get
as a new distributor newish
to share it source control
system from Linus Torvalds himself,
and as myself being an
old subversion guy from way
back. And these guys have
recently moved from subversion or
moving from subversion to get,
I wanted to sit down
and find out what all
the, what all the hype
is about. Get. So you've
been using subversion for your
rails work for, for years?
Yes, We've been using subversion
for as long as the
company has been around. Definitely
it's for as long as
I've been here. And we
just recently started switching to
get, and we don't have
a centralized get server yet,
but we're using get against
the subversion server using get
SVN. No, I started out
in source control using zip
files and I just changed
the file name and I
stick it over there. Right.
And Linus did that. He'd
made tarballs and he put
them off in the corner
and that's that's enough storage
control for me. And then
as a Microsoft developer, I
started using source safe, which
was just a big cloud
of source in the sky.
And there was this notion
of checkout and check in,
and it was in a
pessimistic checkout model, such that
I would check something out
and it was mine. There
was no notion of a,
you know, optimistic concurrency in
the sense of just get
it out and edit it.
And we'll worry about merging
later. So that was a
big change for me to
go from a sort of
safe model to subversion model
right now, subversion seemed great.
I mean, I have no
problem with diversion. The only
time things go wrong with
subversion is when I branch
the code and try to
merge it back. Right. And
that's one place that gets
really shines that subversion always
talks about how branching is
really easy and really fast.
And it's a, it's a
shallow copy, but in get,
they try and make merging
really easy. And so the
branch is really easy to,
but really if you can't
merge, what's the point of
branching. So get really tries
to make that easy. Okay.
So with subversion, the fi
it's all in the file
system, there's no database like
there was in that, there
is in the, in the
source safe world, there was
just this big binary blob
and the source was out,
there was a version. There's
a, it's a file system.
You can look at. So
when I make a branch,
I'm really doing this on
the file system. Correct. But
I'm doing it on a
main centralized server. That's out
in the cloud somewhere right
now, while I can get
on an airplane with subversion
and start editing my code,
I can't really make local
labels. I can't say, well,
I need unlimited undo because
I'm on an airplane. Right?
So versions out there. So
people keep saying that good
is a distributed system. Where's
that where's that, that main
cloud Machine. So the way
it works is is that
every, every single get checkout
is a full repository. So
you have all version history
sitting there in your directory
and you, you have the,
you can make commits to
it. And when the concept
of certain central server is
different, it's not, it's not
something you're making commits to.
It's, you're, you're pushing the
comments that you've already made
locally. So you make commits
locally and then you can
push that set of commits
to a central server. Okay.
So it's a, it's a
kind of a multi-phased commit.
Exactly. Exactly. Okay. So it's
sitting on my local machine.
I've got, do I have
a server on my machine
or is it really not?
It's just interacting with the
database directly. There, there's a
set of files that they
maintain the revision history. Okay.
So as a windows developer,
I installed get, and I
had to get Cygwin, which
is a Unix subsystem. And
I noticed it get, is
put together with bash and
scripts. And it's kind of
a, this MacGyver, like thing,
I assume it's less so
on, on iOS 10, which
you guys are using. Yeah.
Because It is developed for
Unix type environments. It, it's
pretty, it's pretty, it's really
simple trivial to install it
with Mac ports. So we're
able to just do a
port install, get dash core,
and then we're able to
pass plus SVN. So we
get the SPN support built
in to get, and that's
pretty much all we have
to do to get, get
up and running on our
machines. And then we have
the get command available from
our terminal. So in my
system, I got a get
shell. So basically a custom
dos prompt and the windows
world that looks like it's
got all the paths and
everything. So I can type
things like get status and
get add, and things like
that. And I said, create
repository and a little dot
get folder appeared in my,
in my folder. And it
was cool that that's all,
it was, there was no
service that was installed. Nothing
was running in the background.
It just simply worked. I
assume it's all the same.
Whether I'm on Linux OS
10 or windows, As far
as I'm aware, I've, I've
actually never used it on
windows. So I'm not really
familiar with how windows users
are interacting with it. But
as far as it's concerned,
as Annie was saying, it's
all just that there's a,
basically a database that gets
added to your local directory
and then everything is self
contained in that directory. So,
so as, as A, as
a single developer doing this
work, I'm, I've made changes
to files. I've added files,
I've committed. And I've got
some, some rudimentary visual tools
for seeing branching and whatnot,
but I don't have a
centralized location to, to push
changes up to. So from
the point of view of
a single developer on my
local machine, it feels like
subversion in the sense that
I'm making commits and I
can tag things and I
can branch, I've done a
couple of merges. So, so
far it feels like a
local subversion repository. And I've
made those before. A lot
of people think of subversion
as being centralized, but you
can say file colon whack,
whack, and suddenly you're doing
some version locally. What part
of get am I not
seeing this? This is that
notion of a central server
to push to With getting,
you can do that. You
can, you can still have
a central server, like if
you're worried about backing up
things. So it's not, Well,
I guess I'm saying that
when Linux Linus, isn't really
building the Linux kernel on
his laptop and then releasing
it to the world, surely
there's a build server somewhere.
There must be an authoritative
source to say, that's the
branch. That's the main. Exactly.
So, I mean, you can
have a get repository stored
on a server that has
a central server, but it's,
it's just like the repository
that's on your local laptop.
It's special in any way.
It's not special in any
way. And usually there's not
a working directory with all
the funnels in it. It's
just, it's just the database.
I mean, you can do
that. Yeah. So it's just
another peer. So this is
really Exactly. And so you,
you generally have one of
these central servers, which is
authoritative in some way because
of who's hosting it. So
Linux has a central server
somewhere that you can pull
from and, and pull down
the Colonel tree that, but
it's his Colonel tree and
somebody else can have a
good server that has their
version of the kernel tree
and they can make their
own changes to it. And
then the really cool part
is, is that because these
are just two piers, the
second that somebody else's kernel
tree, they can just send
a Lenise, a pull request,
or just say, pull from
my tree and then let
us can say, okay, pulling
those changes from that source
over there, push them up
to his server. And then
all of the changes have
been, have, have been made
it to the, into the
authoritative server. Okay. So let's,
let's try to put this
more at the hello world
stage. Okay. So, so Andy
has got get in his
machine, right? He sets up
a folder, he says, create
repository and we make the
new hello world application. Correct.
You add a bunch of
files to it. You commit,
you say initial check-in right.
And this exists only on
your machine. Correct. And you
make changes to it and
you say, get hyphen, you'll
get space status. And it
says that you've got three
files that have changed. You
commit them and you say,
second change now, how do
I get your stuff? If,
if I'm working on a
server, if I'm, if I'm
working on like my desktop
or something like that. Okay.
It's perfectly reasonable to have,
have you have the ability
to push to that repository
file sharing or via, I
mean, you can run it
on over SSH. So, I
mean, max have an SSH
to rebuilt in. You can
do that in Linux, of
course too. But what would
make more sense is that
if I like some Linux
server and, but some back
closet somewhere, I can make
a get repository there, push
my changes to it. The
HTTP vs. SSH, Whatever protocol,
there's a good protocol. That's
sort of the common one.
It's really, really efficient for
just pushing the changes that
are necessary. Okay. And then
you can talk to that
same repository and pull down
my changes. You've got it
from you directly from this
one. Exactly. There's no difference
between the server. So we
could say there's a build
server. I could get it
from there. I could get
it from you. And, but
administratively, it makes more sense
to have essential server because
I don't necessarily want to
have you have SSH access
or get access to my
machine. Whereas if you have
the central server, I understand
one of the things that's
fundamental to get is this
notion of these unique IDs
is a unique ID for
every check and a globally
unique. Right. And it, and
it's simply the shell one,
some of the contents of
that Checkin, it's a SHA
one hash of the contents
of the check-in. Okay. So
contents, the same, you get
the same. Check-in okay. And
these are all just nodes
in a graph. So you
have a directed graph and
every time you check in,
you get a new node
in the graph, there's a
new point, a new pointer
to the graph. And then
you have some label that
says, this is the head.
Okay. So we've got a
number of distributed systems that
all have get on them.
They'll have local repositories of
our hello world application. Correct?
Every time someone makes a
change and checks it in,
there's a hash of that
batched up check in that's
created and stored in that
database so that I can
point to something anyone's commit
and say that not only
is this a unique and
identifiable, but I'm also a,
I can't go back and
change history because you said
it's cryptographically significant. I assume
that means that I can't
go back three versions and
lie and make it look
like that's what you checked
in because I've got a
little bit of a It's
interesting in there, you can,
in a way you can
go back and edit, commit
messages. You can, you can
go back in the commit
history, but it's so the,
the sort of main competing
revision control system is mercurial
Is the one that everyone
brings up on the windows
side, because it has a
few more things that are
windows support. Exactly. So mercurial
is very similar to get,
it uses the same sort
of directed graph. The database
is the same. And, but
in mercurial, the immutable revision
history is very, very true.
You can be immutable, very
immutable. Yes. I guess that
would be more immutable than
right. So, so in get,
and get, there are ways
that you can change things.
So that, But the intent
is that one can't modify,
right? Yes. Okay. Correct. So,
so then you've got one
and I've got one and
the build server got one
and we don't actually declare
one branch, the, the head
like you would in subversion,
this notion of the head,
it's more of a convention
of people. Good. Clear Linus
is branch as the head
simply via we trust him.
Right. Well, I mean, well,
there's two different concepts that
there's there's branches, which are
different copies within the same
and within the same repository.
And then you have separate
repository. So, okay. There, you're
talking about like Lenise's repository
is the authoritative one and
that's true. So you have
kernel.org, which is the authoritative,
you know, get repository for
the Colonel. Okay. And as
far as branches go, there's
a convention of the master
branch in get, which allows
you to, ah, is that
just the first one? It
is. I mean, it's the,
it's the one that gets
created. It's the one you
commit to when you just
create a branch and it's
the one you switch back
to. So on my windows
machine, I noticed that I
have one called master and
it was just the initial
one. I made a couple
of other ones. Exactly. So
now on my system, I've
just been saying checkout and
then picking a different branch.
And then the folder, my
main folder, I've been doing
all of my development and
simply changes. Exactly exactly. Now
would I want to make
different sandboxes? It's just as
simply a matter of making
a folder and saying checkout,
and then I've got another
repository or is there a
convention? Do most people keep
multiple versions or do they
just change one folder? Can
I move you around? Most
people just keep one folder
and then just sort of
move, move the working directory
around. So you have the
index and the, and the
database behind that. And then
the, you can just change
the working directory to point
at whichever And the treatments
version, we call that an
SVN switch. Right? And if
I remember correctly in my
days of subversion, which is
about, it's been about a
year now, I got nailed
several times since a version
where I would have committed
things that weren't quite committed.
And so version got confused
because I, I had something
in a non-committed state can,
the same things happen and
get Basically if something bad
is gonna happen and won't
let you do it. So
if you have uncommitted changes
that that will overwrite things,
it'll say, no, you can't.
Cause that was my fear.
I'm going to lose this
uncommitted change. Right? If you
have an uncommitted change that
that will not, will that
conflicts with something in the
other branch or switching to
then it'll, it'll complain. It
won't let you do it.
It won't let me check
out. Right. Okay. So there's
a, there's a command that's
called get stash. That'll basically
just store away. All of
your intermittent changes. It just
puts them somewhere. And then
you can switch to your
master branch. Do your changes
come back to commit, right?
It's not a commit. There's
no, there's no commit message.
It's just hiding them away
for a minute. And then
when you come back to
that branch and you want
to pick up where you
left off, you do get
stash apply. And that puts
all your changes back. This
makes me feel, is this
a distributed source control system
or just a very clever,
clever journaled file system. It
actually has a lot of
similarities to file systems. Linux
us of course, is a
kernel developer. So he, he
used a lot of the
semantics of file systems to
develop, develop the database. Maybe
it's just me. But one
of the things that I'm
finding myself doing is forgetting
to add files in, I'll
make a new file and
I'll go editing and editing
and editing, and then I'll
realize as it comes time
to commit, then I never
added it. Is this just
something that I have to
learn? Yeah. I mean, it
tells you if you do
get status, it says these
files around tracked by get.
So I don't know. I
run into the same thing
on subversion. I forgot to
add my files the same
thing. So The reason I
ask is I'm trying to
understand. I think that one
of the things that cool,
a Microsoft guy said, who
is the chief architect of
visual studio, said that he
wants to design a product
that lets you fall into
the pit of success. So
even if you screw up
and you fall, you're landing
in a good place. And
I like products that are
not gonna let me screw
up. Basically, I don't want
too much rope. I don't
want a loaded gun, you
know? Yeah. It does give
you a fair amount of
rope, but it's getting better
all the time. It's a
lot easier to use. Now.
It's a lot easier to
stab yourself in the toe
now than it was a
year ago or two years
ago. So what's the relationship
between your existing subversion repositories
and this new getrepository repository?
Because I understand you didn't
just switch over. No, we
still have our subversion repositories.
And basically we use them.
We're using it as though
it's like a rapid at
the moment around our subversion
repositories, but we get part
of a power of get,
you know, all the benefits
of being able to work
offline and create local branches
and so on what we're
still connected to our subversion
repositories. Interesting. So how many
times are you checking in
on your get repository, which
I would think we would
call a local commit where
you're basically using the get
repository repository as an unlimited
local personal undue system with
commits and notes, and then
subversion, which are you checking
in once a day, once
a week, We believe that
we do it is, I
mean, you can build up
commits for open day and
obviously we're doing constant backups
throughout the day, but we
also try to encourage people
when possible to check back
into the main repository, Getting
a sense of the, the,
the, the tempo. Cause I
think that one of the
things that a lot of
the agile and test driven
development, people that I talked
to like about get is
the idea that I might
check in after every successful
test. I mean, someone might
literally check in every, you
know, 10, 15 minutes while
in subversion, that might be
an expensive operation. And I'm
wondering if this is interesting
that someone might want to
not go all, get all
the time and might want
to just use it locally
and then stick with whatever
their corporate mandated, whether it
be TFS on the Microsoft
side or subversion or whatever
as their centralized location and
build server. We'll just go
back to a little bit
about the tempo. We all
kind of work in different
ways. And I think at
the moment, if you look
what we've been doing, Andy
tends to keep hold of
things a little longer. Well,
some of us we check
in more often. It really
depends a lot on how
many people are working on
something and how closely related
it is. Obviously if you've
got a few people who
are all waiting for something
to wear, you know, be
checked in, then we'll encourage
people to do that more
often. So you're using get
locally and personally, or do
you get information to Andy
by pushing it up to
subversion and then he gets
it down or do you
go sideways? Yeah. So interesting.
So even though get as
a distributed versioning system, you're
not quite at the point
where you're going peer to
peer, you're still using, it's
a version as that hub.
This is analyst. One of
the great things about we
found actually is that it
allows us to, you know,
play Around with it, get
used to all the different
features of our office, but
we don't have to jump
right in. Yeah. So it's
a good little stepping stone
on the way to get
in there. We do have
plans to move to it
eventually because everybody enjoys using
it. But yeah, this was
a great little stepping stone.
What do you think Robbie
asked one off on that
a little bit more. One
of the other constraints that
we have is that we,
some of the clients that
we work with have their
own subversion repositories. So we'd
actually, can't dictate what the,
you know, what we're actually
going to use for the
whole project and they'll have
their own developers working on
the project as well. So
we're able to start connecting
to their existing, their existing
subversion repositories and with their
get. And we're actually able
to keep balling in the
same, get processed and then
keep pushing to their subversion
repository. And that's been working
really well for us as
well. So Be really useful
for a consultant. A roaming
consultant could keep get stuff
locally, but he might be
doing CVS one place and
a zip files and another
and something else somewhere else.
So in a second here,
I want to ask you
about get as it relates
to SVN. Cause I understand
that there's some SVN tools
that are built in to
get, but real quickly, we
just need to pay the
bills and thank our sponsors.
Hi, it's Scott here from
another place in time. I
hope you're enjoying the show
so far. I apologize for
interrupting it, but I wanted
to let you know that
assembling a podcast like this
every week, isn't free. Certainly
the bandwidth bill crushes us
every month. So I want
to let you know that
this show is sponsored by
Tellerik. They make the show
possible and it makes pretty
cool products as well. For
example, if you're trying to
build a web 2.0 Ajax
application, trying to use the
web 1.0 components, it's kind
of difficult. You've got to
get the next gen stuff.
If you want to build
the next gen websites. And
that's exactly what the folks
at Telerx have got and
their new upcoming product, which
is code named rad controls.
Prometheus's big pack, a web
controls built entirely on top
of the Microsoft ASP net
Ajax stuff that you already
understand. It's going to give
you a lot of performance
interactivity on your next project.
They mirror the ASP net
Ajax API. So the development's
really straightforward client scripture's shared
loading time is pretty fast.
You set a couple of
properties. You can even bind
a web services for really
efficient operation. The new rad
editor for ASB at Ajax
loads up to four times
faster than before. And the
rad grid will do thousands
of records and milliseconds. But
of course it's, it's better
to try these things for
yourself. So you can visit
dot com slash ASP,
net Ajax, and download a
trial. Thanks a lot for
listening and we'll get right
back to the show. All
right. So a moment ago,
I wanted to ask you
Robbie, about subversion as it
relates to get. Cause you
were saying that there were
some tools that get comes
with where it get itself
knows about subversion. Yeah. When
you installed get, depending on
how you install it on,
on, on our max, we're
able to install the SBN
extensions for get, which is
something that comes with get
if you install it. So
that allows you to automatically
connect to us version repository.
So it's trying to encourage
people to move away from
subversion. That's something that the
get project actually decided to
do. So that's not something
we have to install from
some other third party that's
actually coming from. What does
that give you connect to
a subversion repository in what
respect in the sense that
Andy saying use get locally
and certainly kind of a
migration path. Yeah. So basically
it ends up providing you
a, another command called get
SVN, get dashes fan or
get space SPN, depending on
your platform, but that that's
allowing you to basically check
out from a subversion repository,
commit back to as a
version repository and do many
of the subversion tasks that
you would normally do if
you're using the SVN command.
So we're able to do
that through get. Hmm. And
do you think that that's
something that, that, that you'll
stick with or a year
is your goal to get
completely away from SVN? It
would be nice to move
completely away from subversion, but
I mean, the realities are
that some of our projects,
we are working with other
clients that have some version
already in place. So we're,
we're going to have to
work with those, those customers,
but for our own projects
we're using get, I have
a couple of open source
projects. And so does any
that are using get when
we were using them, get
hub for that, which is
a new gets a hosting
service, which is also where
Ruby on rails is moving
towards as well. Right? Ruby
on rails is going to
be moving right now, completely
from subversion over to get
and they're hosting it github.com.
Now, one of the things
that I thought was interesting
about it was that subversion
touts itself as only storing
deltas, like that's a good
thing. We don't store the
full file. You know, we,
we store these deltas of
files. Well, on, in get,
they're saying, well, this space
is cheap. Plus I don't
trust anyone. Therefore not only
do I not want to
have a centralized server that
could be corrupted, but I
don't even want to let
there be diffs of files.
I want to have the
full file on all the
time. What's really interesting is
that the get repository is
almost always smaller than this
version, the equivalent of version
checkout. So there's a certain
irony in there that I,
you know, I have some
version checkouts that without the
full riches and history are
still one and a half
times as big as the
get checked out with the
full version history, I don't
really know the details of
how, of how the database
is stored, but Linux is
obviously a really smart guy.
He, he, he built it.
I started to realize that
he built it based on
file system techniques, like, like
I said earlier. So he
does some cool things that
you can repack the repository
and make it smaller. You
reduce the file, the number
of files. So you just
have one big file that
has all the, all the
little packs in it. And
so you don't have the
huge number of files. You
also just have the one
dot get fi directory rather
than dots. SVN directory is
all over your source control.
Oh, interesting. So I said,
I haven't got a couple
of deep, so you're saying
that they're at the root
of your repository. There's a
dot yet folder. That would
be invisible. It's kind of
the kid is here. Thing
hidden directory. Well, it's a
version. You get these dot
SVN files kind of littered.
Exactly. So you just have
that one get, get directory.
What's interesting is that to
turn a, get repository into
just a checkout line or
an export and subversion speak,
all you have to do
is remove that dot get
directory. And then it's just,
it's just your checkout. So
there's no, there's, there's no
concept of, of get export
because you just get checked
out or get clone in
the roof. That folder. Now,
one of the things that
was really interesting about subversion
that took me a while
was that, and it was
an improvement over, over CVS,
which is where I was
originally was that I could
rename a file and not
lose my history. And how
does that work? Get tracks
the content. So it doesn't
actually track the files directly,
but it, if you, if
you copy a file, then
the shawl on some of
that files the same or
mostly the same. So even
The shot one hash it's
either the same or it's
not, there's no, mostly at
the site, I don't know
the details of how it,
how it keeps track of
what's the same or not,
but it does keep track
of partial chain, But in
your daily life, as you're
using it and you were
going to rename something, right.
So I'm still follow the
history back. I get, you
know, I'm I move the
file, I get delete the
old file and get out
of the new file. And
then when I check in,
it says, copy or move.
It's just that it's a
delete in an ad. Right.
But because the hash is
the same, But it detects
the change. So you don't
have, there is no, well,
I think they're probably doesn't
get moved, but you don't
have to use it. It's
it's still all the time,
which I'm sure you can
do it in one. Exactly.
And it happens all the
time where I I'll I'll
check in something I'll duplicate
some file. And then I
won't even like, copy it
directly. Like, but just in
my text editor I'll copy.
Most of the contents, this
happens a lot in HTML
files change a few things.
And then when I do
get check-in, it's still, it
says copy rather than, than
a new file. So everyone
picks on subversion when it
comes to mergers and branches.
They're saying that, you know,
branches are pretty straightforward once
you understand how a subversions
URL addressing scheme works. But
in, in get, I just
gave it a name. I
think I called it, I'm
trying something. And then I
went off and I fooled
around with it. I committed.
And then I said, I
want to merge. I'm trying
something into master. Right. I
did. There were a couple
of things work. There was
one conflict where I changed
the same line in two
places. Right. You have to
resolve that conflict and then
I'm back in business. It
was pretty straight. Yeah. It
works really well. I find
that there usually a very
small number of conflicts, unless
there's actually been conflicts. I
mean, tends to be the,
you see conflicts and get
when some people have been
changing the same part of
the same file, which obviously
it can't figure out. Sure.
It's interesting. It's starting to
make it difficult. I'm trying
to get my brain around
this. And one of the
things that really made me
realize that it was different
was that I went over
to get hub. One of
the options was most forked,
right? What did you see
most popular? Right. But most
fork meant that, you know,
more and more people are
forking. And I work on
a number of open source
projects and one of them
is called DAS blog. It's
a blogging system for.net and
it's been forked once and
it freaked us out. And
I went up on GitHub
and one project is forklift
73 times. Right. And if
I understand what does that
mean? So forking is really
just other people who've made
their own repositories, Right? So
that's just like, it's the
same as if I cloned
it to my laptop or
whatever, but it's just both
on get hub. So I
just have my own repository,
which has the same contents.
But the thing is, is
that I might have, might
not have commit rights to
your repository, but I have
commitments rights to my repository.
So rather than checking out
your code, formatting patches, emailing
you patches, and then you
apply them. Them, all I
do is I fork your
code. I make my changes.
I add a new feature.
I push my changes back
up to get hub. And
then I sent you a
pull request. And then you,
if you like my changes,
just pull from my GitHub
repository. I don't, there's no
involvement from me. And it
makes it a lot easier
to Let's back up and
do that slower. Cause right
now, if someone wants to
make a patch to my
subversion stuff in dusk blog,
right, they do it, they
do a checkout, they can't
commit back. Right. They make
a patch and they mail
me the patch. I look
at it and I apply
it. And then I check
in exactly in your instance,
they've made a clone and
they've got the complete repository
and their own machine. They
never have to talk to
you again, Not just on
their own machine. They have
their complete repository on GitHub
as well. Oh. So when
you sent the servers doing
the same thing, right. Fork,
you, you have, I would
then have my own full
repository of, of DAS blog
in this case. Okay. On
GitHub, Effective get hub in
the way they've decided to
do things. Exactly. Exactly. Okay.
I mean, it's, as far
as anyone's concerned, I couldn't
do this on my own
server. Right. And then I
could send you a pull
request from that server Pull
request. Is this something formal
that has a protocol or
is this just a convention?
It doesn't in get hub,
get hub has a, has
a system. So I can
click a button that says
pull request. Then it'll send
you an email saying poll,
but it's not actually a
get some hands. So when
I do a fork on
this, on this get hub
shared hosting system, I'm getting
my own private master for
lack of a better word,
because I can then commit
to I won't Sully yours.
And then I go and
say, Hey dude, look over
here. This is cool. Exactly.
This is interesting because this
makes sense. This would be
exactly how Linux would work.
Exactly. I'm going to say
his name a different way.
Each time. I say he
wants, he has a trusted
network of people that he,
he believes are good. And
then though his lieutenants have
trusted networks of people. And
so does that, how it's
working amongst the nine of
you at your company. We're
not quite there yet. There's
still some of us that
are using subversion. We have
a couple of designers who
aren't as tech savvy, and
don't want it on the
command line. We're not quite
on the bleeding, you know,
they're not on the bleeding
edge. They they're, they're more
comfortable with the command line
than many, but we're getting
there. So, I mean, but
that's, that's sort of the
goal. I mean, that would
be awesome. But in our
small company here, we're all
gonna have commit rights to
the, to the central server.
So having, having each our
own remote repository isn't necessarily
going to be the key.
Now are you guys are
doing everything at the command
line. I know when I
sat down and started messing
around with get as a
windows developer, it was really
rather a bit shocking when
I said S get commit
and suddenly VI popped up.
And I had to remember
how to get out. I
was trapped in the, in
the comment section for a
second. Are you guys doing
everything at the command line?
Yeah, We're pretty much doing
everything by way. And it's
interesting because my history was
used to be a.net developer.
And so I was used
to using a GUI tools
and just over a year
ago, I moved over. Hadn't
used Unix for a long,
long time. Super. What were
you using for your, as
a.net developer for your, for
your source control? Initially, I
was using a safe and
then got, as soon as
Tim system came out, we
switched to a different system.
Okay, good. Yeah. So I've
only been using supervision for
a year and now we're
going through to get so
it's yet another change for
me, but transitioning from using,
you know, frontends a nice
squeeze on everything. It was
a little bit of a
sort of jolt at first,
but I got used to
it very quickly. And now
I feel like in some
ways I have a little
more control over what I
do. It seems like there
is a slightly steeper learning
curve, but once you get
past that, it's, it's hard
to describe, but I feel
like I've got a little
more control over what I'm
doing Now. Have you found
yourself making shell scripts or
batch files to make things
a little easier or are
you just doing get space
command? As far as Oregon
really is just aliasing stuff
there. Just some of the
get commands are not really
how I picked you up
from being, so I've just
set up aliases form my
suits, me and boy. Yeah.
I made a few customization.
So we're using the verbs
that you're comfortable with. Yeah.
This is interesting that it
really works the way that
you want it to work.
Yeah. For the most part
it's been to the level
of we're using it right
now, it's been pretty natural.
And obviously there is a
lot more, if you look
at some of the things
that Andy talks about in
his blog posts, it gets
pretty complex. And I've yet
to touch on some of
that. That's interesting. Cause Andy,
I was looking at your
blog and I found a
number of things that seemed
fairly complex. You know, where
this isn't something that just
junior developer sits down and
starts using. I think, I
mean, gets it, is it
because it was designed with
the Linux way of thinking,
which is a little bit
more, they assume that you
are having to have skills
at some point, you know
what I mean? Like you
have basic abilities. I think
so. I think that there's
some amount of assumed knowledge
where you, when Lennox, Lennox
was first writing, get, he
was writing it for kernel
developers. And for people like
him who are very comfortable
with command line, have a
pretty good working grasp of,
of different check-ins checkouts, you
know, knew what a directed
graph might be. And, But
also patch files the way
it did the universal format
works, VI you know, arc
and different regular expressions. There's
a certain expectation that you
get the Unix command line.
I think that's definitely true.
And it was a lot
more true when get first
came out, Lenise purposely wrote
it to be a bunch
of low level C programs
to modify the database directly.
And then a few shell
scripts on top of it
to do sort of the,
they call it the porcelain
and Interesting th th the
pretty stuff is called the
Porcelain. I think so. Yeah.
Cool. So there, the, all
the porcelain has gotten much
better in the past couple
of years. So in the
beginning I didn't use it
right when it came out,
but there were horror stories
of how hard it was
to use. So it's gotten
a lot better. Most of
the semantics are the same.
You still, as subversion, you
still check out, check in
status. These are all sort
of the same things, Right?
There's a number of tutorials
I've seen that say here's
get from the subversion user's
point. Exactly, exactly. It definitely
though, compared to something like,
like source safe, which not
only has basic simple things,
like get, get version and
check, check in that's basic,
you know, get latest and
check in, but that notion
that I can just change
any file Willy nilly, whatever
I want to do. And
that was one of the
most difficult things for my
company that I used to
work at when we moved
from source safe to subversion,
was this notion that you
can't just check stuff out
and lock it down. Right.
But now the idea that
I can have local commits
Lenise brings this up in
his, in his YouTube video
about get where he says
he wanted to be able
to be on a plane
and make edits, and then
we'll do local commits. Cause
I've used the version for,
for years and always got
nailed where I didn't check
in for a day or
two and I needed to
back up just a few
hours. Right. And I've done
that. I mean, I've made
chickens on planes when we
took a business trip a
couple of months ago and
I was doing some work
on the plane across the
Atlantic. And now if you
make, say five check-ins on
a plane, and then you
is the term push that.
Yeah. Push the, do all
five commits, go up there
by default. You can, there,
there are ways that this
is where you get into
editing the revision history. So
you can squash commits down
to a single commit. Okay.
It doesn't sound like that
would be a good thing.
I'm not necessarily, I've done
it a few times because
I'm pushing to the subversion
server. So if I have
20 commits and it has
to do The commits were,
Oh, I see that you're
pushing into the subversion server.
Right. So, I mean, I
know it was commits. So
by default, if I, if
I make five commits locally,
and then I say, get
SPN D commit to push
those to the subversion server.
Okay. Then it will make
five. So version commits, just
the same commits. And you
just said the term decommit,
decommitted, that's just the command.
I don't actually know what
it is. D E commit
just the letter D Okay.
Let's get to version D
commitment, but it's because it's
coming from your local commits
of interest. Exactly. Just pushing
my commits that I've made
locally to get up to
this version. So really It
depends on whether or not
those commits are significant to
the rest. Exactly. So I'm
at a five, if I'm
just saying like, Oh, a
little bit more work, you
know, I made some more
changes and then there's one
complete feature that I'm adding.
I can, I can rename
those five commits, squash them
out in one, commit, Put
a new commit message saying
I've added this feature and
push that to subversion. That's
not as common in if
you have to get central
repository, because I mean, then
annoying thing is, is that
when it's doing each of
those subversion commits, it's slow
because it's got to basically
push them to diversion, pull
down any changes from subversion.
Do it again, do it
again and do it again.
But most things didn't get
her fast because they're all
local things. Exactly. Pushing fires
around a local very, very
fast. Yeah. Now you were
using TFS before and TFS.
I'm going to talk to
those guys next week about,
cause they're a much more
centralized thing, but they have
issue tracking and bug tracking,
all that kind of stuff.
Were you using those features
when you were using TFS?
When I began using, we
didn't go into a lot
of depth on it. Let's
see. We are pretty much
working on the bleeding edge
of whatever Microsoft will bring
it out. And so we
adopt that as you know,
from a day it was
available and primarily the way
I was using it was
still as a sole developer,
you know, working on an
actual, Just for the source
control. Yeah. And so I
didn't get into that, you
know, too much, but it
was obvious that it was
better than sort of safe.
I mean with no more
corrupt databases and things like
that. People compare like subversion
to, to TFS or version
to some of these other
tools that have issue tracking
and stuff built in. It
makes me wonder when you're
using, get you're using subversion,
you must have an issue
tracking bug tracking system as
well using Zillow, or what
are you guys using? We're
using a lighthouse which is
Developed by a local company
written in rails. Okay. And
so that's working out pretty
well for us. I don't
know, Just does one want
to plug those things in
such that a, a check
in is attached to an
issue. We, we kinda have
our own convention for that.
So when we're, you know,
we're fixing a bug that's
in lighthouse, we'll usually, we'll
occasionally I mentioned the, the
lighthouse bug ticket number and
that commit. So people can
kind of see the history
because there's nothing directly connected.
I've heard some rumors that
there's some posts, be some
integration between get hub and
lighthouse in the, in the
near future when light or
when get hub becomes publicly
available. Because right now it's
invite only I believe. Yeah,
because also the Ruby on
rails project is also moving
to lighthouse as their primary
ticket system. So there's open
source to know lighthouse and
get hub are actually both
commercial products, but they're free
for open source developers to
use. And they're going to
have commercial, you know, commercial
account levels. So for private
repositories and stuff like that.
So we've actually looked at
that as being a potential
option for us too. So
we'll have something like a
central repository, but that it
would be up for private
repositories for our client. Is
there, is there a gift
repository browser, like there was
for like fisheye for a
version that you run around
inside of subversion on the
web and look at charts
and graphs and commit history
and all those kinds of
things in a very graphical
sense, but you know, some
kind of an Explorer are
you talking about, like on
the client side, I don't,
I don't know anything about
fish fish. I was just
a tool that you would
basically install on a cert
on a, on a web
server you'd pointed at some
version, it would go through
it and would make these
really, this really friendly, you
know, repository browser with graphical
branches. And it was, it
was basically like blame plus
plus plus on steroids on
the web. Right. So get
actually comes with a, with
a component called get web
so that it does basically
what you're, what you're talking
about. It's probably not nearly
as pretty, it's pretty sort
of bare bones, but you
can go through, look at
the revision history, look through
all the comments, look at,
look at the file tree
and looking at each individual
file. It uses all get
naming conventions. So you're clicking
on things that are called,
you know, blobs and, and
trees and things like that.
I find things a little
confusing. I know that all
of my checkins so far
and get, say unknown. So
somewhere I haven't put in
my name yet. Right? Yeah.
That's the first thing. And
every, every that's the first
thing, every 15th commit and
then they all unknown. So
now I have to figure
out how to go back
and change them. There's a,
there's a file in your
home directory, wherever that happens
to be, and it's called
get config dot and get
confirmed. So it's a hidden
file. And you put your
name and your email address
in there, and that's, that's
what gets recorded as your
commit. It's not like some
version where I haven't user
on the subversion server. So
it's just what I, what
I claim to be. Right.
The first thing we did
when we had some version
was you hooked up our
domain user in the windows
universe and it existed in
some version. So it just
happened automatically. Exactly. It's interesting
when, when the units were
on the windows world collide,
and then you have to
go and explain to someone
who's never seen the Unix
machine, what a.directory is that
kind of implies interesting. Well,
thanks so much you guys,
for sitting down with me
today, it's good to see
people using these tools in
ways I hadn't thought about,
I didn't know that you
could plug in the manual
to get into subversion, and
I wish you luck using
this new tool on Ruby,
on rails projects. Thanks again,
Andy, Gary and Robby here
at planet argon and downtown
Portland. This has been another
episode of Hansel minutes and
I'll see you again next
week.